feat/npm troubleshooting doc (#7616)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/network-performance-monitoring/troubleshooting/snmp-discovery-unexpected-profile.mdx

---
title: SNMP discovery maps to an unexpected profile
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Network monitoring
  - Troubleshooting
metaDescription: SNMP monitoring discovery maps your device to an unexpected profile.
---

## Problem [#problem]

After running an SNMP discovery, your device is mapping to an unexpected profile in the `mib_profile` key of the device configuration.

## Background [#background]

The SNMP discovery process will attempt to automatically map devices to an existing profile from the [kentik/snmp-profiles](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles) repository using the following process:

  * First, an attempt is made to match the value of the device's [sysObjectID](http://oid-info.com/get/1.3.6.1.2.1.1.2) with either a literal or wildcard match for the values in the `systemobjectid` key for a profile.

>   * In cases where a device's sysObjectID is one of the [Net-SNMP agent OIDs](http://oid-info.com/get/1.3.6.1.4.1.8072.3.2), there is a best-effort attempt to further isolate the device profile through a regex match against the device's [sysDescr](http://oid-info.com/get/1.3.6.1.2.1.1.1) value. *You can see the current options in the `matches` key of the [net-snmp.yml profile](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/blob/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/_general/net-snmp.yml).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * In cases where a device's sysObjectID is one of the [Net-SNMP agent OIDs](http://oid-info.com/get/1.3.6.1.4.1.8072.3.2), there is a best-effort attempt to further isolate the device profile through a regex match against the device's [sysDescr](http://oid-info.com/get/1.3.6.1.2.1.1.1) value. You can see the current options in the `matches` key of the [net-snmp.yml profile](https://github.com/kentik/snmp-profiles/blob/main/profiles/kentik_snmp/_general/net-snmp.yml).
```

We don't use italics to emphasize sentences like this.

> There are 2 distinct scenarios that can exist after this process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two distinct scenarios that can exist after this process:
```

We generally write numbers between 0 and 9 out as words.

  1. Device is matched to an expected profile and collects metrics without issue.
  2. Device is unexpectedly matched to the wrong profile and is collecting the wrong metrics or is missing metrics.

## Solutions [#solutions]

### Kentik Default devices [#kentik-default]

> For scenario 2, the most common situation is that your device will map to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the second scenario, the most common situation is that your device will map to the following:
```

```yaml
# Snippet from device config
  mib_profile: base.yml
  provider: kentik-default
```

> Following the steps in the [SNMP discovery results in 'Kentik Default' entities](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/troubleshooting/snmp-discovery-kentik-default) documentation will resolve this for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps in the [SNMP discovery results in 'Kentik Default' entities](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/troubleshooting/snmp-discovery-kentik-default) troubleshooting guide to resolve this.
```

### Net-SNMP devices [#net-snmp]

You may also see situations where the best-effort matching against the `sysDescr` value for a device either doesn't work or isn't available due to a lack of uniquely identifying information available in the value.

> In this case, you can manually override the matching from the discovery job using the **bang (!)** syntax: `"!profile-name.yml"`, which will allow you to force any profile you desire:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, you can manually override the matching from the discovery job using the **bang (!)** syntax: `"!profile-name.yml"`, which allows you to force any profile you desire:
```

```yaml
# Snippet from device config
  mib_profile: "!sonicwall-sma.yml"
  provider: kentik-firewall
```

> *As mentioned in the [device configuration documentation](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/advanced/advanced-config/#devices), the value of the `provider` key also needs to be set to ensure a proper UI experience in New Relic.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the [device configuration documentation](/docs/network-performance-monitoring/advanced/advanced-config/#devices), the value of the `provider` key also needs to be set to ensure a proper UI experience in New Relic.
```

> You'll also need to ensure that you add any new MIBs for your config file into the global `mibs_enabled` key, which tells the running container to actively collect metrics for those MIBs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you add any new MIBs for your config file into the global `mibs_enabled` key. This tells the running container to actively collect metrics for those MIBs.
```

> Following the above example for a Sonicwall firewall:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a Sonicwall firewall example:
```
